# Deep-Learning-Neural-Network--Bike-Sharing

## Introduction 
Bike sharing systems are new generation of traditional bike rentals where whole process from membership, rental and return back has become automatic. Through these systems, user is able to easily rent a bike from a particular position and return back at another position. Currently, there are about over 500 bike-sharing programs around the world which is composed of over 500 thousands bicycles. Today, there exists great interest in these systems due to their important role in traffic, environmental and health issues. 

## About the project
This project entails the use of a neural network to predict the number of bikes needed for a bike sharing business. The neural network is trained with historical data to enable the network to make an accurate forecast.

## [About the Data](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Bike+Sharing+Dataset) 
Apart from interesting real world applications of bike sharing systems, the characteristics of data being generated by these systems make them attractive for the research. Opposed to other transport services such as bus or subway, the duration of travel, departure and arrival position is explicitly recorded in these systems. This feature turns bike sharing system into a virtual sensor network that can be used for sensing mobility in the city. Hence, it is expected that most of important events in the city could be detected via monitoring these data.

## Udacity Feedback 
Great job implementing your network and tuning your hyperparameters! Congratulations on passing the project 

I would suggest to have another look at the performance of your network. The model predictions seem to work really well most of the time, during normal days. However it seems to fail during the holiday week around Christmas. This is likely because there isn't enough data for the network to learn about lower ridership during the holiday season. The dataset only has two years of data and the network only saw this last week once.

